KB: Autofit Grid columns on initial load (#563)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/grid-autofit-columns.md

---
title: Autofit all Grid columns on initial load. 

> description: Autofit all Grid columns on initial load, so that their widths match their content. 

Reviewer: More keywords

```suggestion
description: Autofit all Grid columns on initial page load, so that their widths match their content. 
```

type: how-to

> page_title: Autofit all Grid columns on initial load. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: Autofit all Grid columns on initial page load
```

slug: grid-autofit-columns-on-initial-load
position: 

> tags: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: grid, autofit, columns
```

res_type: kb
---

## Description

> I would like to autofit the Grid columns on initial load of the Component using the [AutoFitAllColumns]({%slug components/grid/columns/resize%}#autofit-columns) method of the Grid reference. The goal is for all column widths to match the column content.

Reviewer: No need to use words that are unlikely to be used in search.

```suggestion
I would like to autofit the Grid columns on initial page load using the [AutoFitAllColumns]({%slug components/grid/columns/resize%}#autofit-columns) method of the Grid. The goal is for all column widths to match the column content.
```

## Background

> In the 2.28.0 release of Telerik UI for Blazor, the Grid introduced methods to autofit one or more columns via the Grid reference. I would like to achieve that behavior on initial load of the component, but can not find a suitable event to call the methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the 2.28.0 release of Telerik UI for Blazor, the Grid introduced [methods to autofit columns programmatically]({%slug components/grid/columns/resize%}#autofit-columns). I would like to achieve that behavior on initial load of the component, but can not find a suitable event to call the methods.
```

## Solution

> To AutoFit the Grid's columns on the initial load of the component you have to use a provision like the `MutationObserver`. This JavaScript tool would allow you to be notified when there are DOM changes. The code snippet below uses the MutationObserver to trigger the `AutoFitAllColumns` method when the nodes in the content of Grid have mutated (rendered in this case). 

Reviewer: Use active voice

```suggestion
To AutoFit the Grid columns on initial load of the component you have to use a provision like the `MutationObserver`. This JavaScript tool notifies about DOM changes. The code snippet below uses the MutationObserver to trigger the `AutoFitAllColumns` method when the nodes in the content of Grid have mutated (rendered in this case). 
```

> In the JavaScript portion of the code snippet you should replace the `<YOUR PROJECT NAMESPACE>` with the actual namespace of your project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to replace `<YOUR PROJECT NAMESPACE>` in the JavaScript code. 
```

---

> title: Autofit all Grid columns on the initial load. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Autofit all Grid columns on initial load. 
```

> description: Autofit all Grid columns on the initial load. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Autofit all Grid columns on initial load, so that their widths match their content. 
```

> type: troubleshooting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type: how-to
```

> page_title: Autofit all Grid columns on the initial load. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: Autofit all Grid columns on initial load. 
```

slug: grid-autofit-columns-on-initial-load
position: 
tags: 
res_type: kb
---

## Description

> I would like to autofit the Grid column on the initial load of the Component using the [AutoFitAllColumns]({%slug components/grid/columns/resize%}#autofit-columns) method of the Grid reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I would like to autofit the Grid columns on initial load of the Component using the [AutoFitAllColumns]({%slug components/grid/columns/resize%}#autofit-columns) method of the Grid reference. The goal is for all column widths to match the column content.
```

> #### Problematic behavior

Reviewer: We can present the information in a positive way. No need for "problematic" opinions.
```suggestion
## Background
```

> Since the 2.28.0 release of the Telerik UI for Blazor product there are events that allow me to autofit one or more columns in the Grid through the exposed methods in the Grid reference. I would like to achieve that behavior on the initial load of the component but can not find a suitable event to call the methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the 2.28.0 release of Telerik UI for Blazor, the Grid introduced methods to autofit one or more columns via the Grid reference. I would like to achieve that behavior on initial load of the component, but can not find a suitable event to call the methods.
```
